.TH pipemixer 1 "June 2025" "0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pipemixer \- ncurses volume control application for pipewire

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pipemixer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpipemixer\fR is a terminal-based volume control application for the pipewire audio system.
It provides a ncurses user interface for navigating and managing audio streams and devices.
\fBpipemixer\fR currently supports changing node volume and mute status.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config
Path to configuration file, see \fBpipemixer.ini\fR(5) for details.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-loglevel
Set log level. Accepted values: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, QUIET.
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-log-fd
Write log output to the specified file descriptor (must be open for writing).
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-color
Force colored log output.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH CONTROLS
By default, \fBpipemixer\fR uses the following keybinds:
.TP
.B j, Down
Move down the node list.
.TP
.B k, Up
Move up the node list.
.TP
.B t, Tab
Switch to the next tab.
.TP
.B T, Shift+Tab
Switch to the previous tab.
.TP
.B 1, 2, 3, 4
Switch to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th tab.
.TP
.B m
Toggle mute for the selected node.
.TP
.B l, Right
Increase volume.
.TP
.B h, Left
Decrease volume.
.TP
.B Space
Toggle channel lock for selected node (affects whether volume changes apply to all channels).
.TP
.B p
Enter port selection mode on nodes that support it.
.TP
.B Enter
Confirm selection.
.TP
.B Escape
Cancel selection.
.TP
.B q
Quit the application.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/heather7283/pipemixer/issues.
.PP
When reporting bugs:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 4
Provide backtrace with symbols if you experience a crash.
.IP \(bu 4
Describe steps necessary to reproduce the issue.
.IP \(bu 4
Attach output of pw-dump (note that it will contain currently playing media).
.PD

.SH SEE ALSO
pulsemixer: https://github.com/GeorgeFilipkin/pulsemixer
.br
pwvucontrol: https://github.com/saivert/pwvucontrol
.PP
.BR pipemixer.ini (5),
.BR pipewire (1),
.BR pw-cli (1)
