.TH pipemixer.ini 5 "September 2025" "0.2.4" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
pipemixer.ini \- configuration file for \fBpipemixer\fR(1)

.SH DESCRIPTION
The pipemixer.ini file configures the behavior and appearance of pipemixer.
.PP
pipemixer will look for a configuration file in the following locations:
.IP \(bu 4
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pipemixer/pipemixer.ini\fR
.IP \(bu 4
\fB$HOME/.config/pipemixer/pipemixer.ini\fR, if XDG_CONFIG_HOME is unset.

.SH SECTION: main
General options.

.PP
.B volume-step
.RS 4
Volume change step in percentage (1 means 1%). Default: 1.
.RE
.PP
.B volume-min, volume-max
.RS 4
Max and min volume that can be set with pipemixer. Default: 0, 150.
.RE
.PP
.B wraparound
.RS 4
Whether scrolling through nodes will continue at the top after reaching the bottom and vice versa. Default: false.
.RE
.PP
.B tab-order
.RS 4
Order of tabs in the UI. A comma-separated string of tab names. Default: playback,recording,output-devices,input-devices
.RE
.PP
.B default-tab
.RS 4
Specifies which tab will be active when pipemixer starts. Default: playback
.RE

.SH SECTION: binds
Configure keybindings. Format is action=key. Each action can be bound to multiple keys. Key can be specified in several ways:
.IP \(bu 4
All printable ASCII/Unicode characters.
.br
Example: tab-next=t
.IP \(bu 4
Special keys: up, down, left, right, enter, tab, backtab, space, backspace, escape.
.br
Example: tab-prev=backtab
.IP \(bu 4
Arbitrary keycodes with code:N, where N is a decimal number.
If N is prefixed with 0x, it is interpreted as hexadecimal instead.
.br
Example: quit=code:185

.PP
.B focus-down, focus-up
.RS 4
Navigate node list.
.RE
.PP
.B focus-first, focus-last
.RS 4
Focus first or last node.
.RE
.PP
.B volume-up, volume-down
.RS 4
Adjust volume.
.RE
.PP
.B tab-next, tab-prev
.RS 4
Cycle forward/backward through tabs.
.RE
.PP
.B tab-playback, tab-recording, tab-input-devices, tab-output-devices
.RS 4
Switch to specific tab.
.RE
.PP
.B tab-N
.RS 4
Switch to Nth tab (1-based).
.RE
.PP
.B mute-toggle, mute-enable, mute-disable
.RS 4
Set mute state for selected node.
.RE
.PP
.B channel-lock-toggle, channel-lock-enable, channel-lock-disable
.RS 4
Set channel lock for selected node.
.RE
.PP
.B volume-set-N
.RS 4
Set volume of selected node to N%.
.RE
.PP
.B select-route
.RS 4
Enter route selection menu on nodes that support it.
.RE
.PP
.B confirm-selection, cancel-selection
.RS 4
Self-explanatory. Applies to menu selection mode.
.RE
.PP
.B quit
.RS 4
Exit application.
.RE
.PP
.B unbind
.RS 4
Unbind a key from any action.
.RE

.SH SECTION: interface
Configure various UI elements.

.PP
.B routes-separator
.RS 4
String that separates routes on nodes that have them.
.RE
.PP
.B border-left, border-right, border-top, border-bottom,
.br
.B border-top-left, border-top-right, border-bottom-left, border-bottom-right
.RS 4
Characters that make up border around each node.
.RE
.PP
.B volume-frame-top-left, volume-frame-top-right,
.br
.B volume-frame-bottom-left, volume-frame-bottom-right,
.br
.B volume-frame-center-left, volume-frame-center-right,
.br
.B volume-frame-mono-left, volume-frame-mono-right,
.br
.B volume-frame-focus
.RS 4
Characters that make up frame around per-channel volume bars.
.RE
.PP
.B bar-empty-char, bar-full-char
.RS 4
Characters for drawing volume bars.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pipemixer (1)
